# Lab 2 - Exercise 1 – Create Mail Flow Rules

In this lab, you will continue in your role as Holly Dickson, Adatum’s Messaging
Administrator. In the prior lab, you created new send and receive connectors for
Adatum's on-premises Exchange Server 2019 deployment. Since Adatum has deployed
Microsoft 365 and is looking to implement a hybrid Exchange environment, Holly
will now begin configuring Exchange Online.

Holly has decided to create a series of mail flow rules designed to protect
Adatum’s messaging environment. She will do so using her client computer
(LON-CL1) to access the Exchange Admin Center for Exchange Online.

In your continuing role as Holly Dickson, you will create mail flow rules for
the following scenarios:

-   **Sensitive material.** The mail flow rule will quarantine messages sent
    from inside the organization that have the words “Secret”, “Classified”, or
    “Sensitive” in the body or subject of the message.

-   **Unscanned attachments.** The mail flow rule will quarantine messages that
    have attachments that are unscanned. The rule will also generate a reply
    message that lets the sender know they have sent a message that is
    undeliverable.

-   **Partially scanned attachments.** The mail flow rule will quarantine
    messages that have attachments that were scanned, but the message scan did
    not finish. This rule will also generate a reply message that lets the
    sender know they have sent a message that is undeliverable.

-   **Email size.** The mail flow rule will restrict the size of emails.

## Task 1 - Create Mail Flow rule for sensitive material

In this exercise you will access the Exchange Admin Center for Exchange Online
using your client PC (LON-CL1). You will then create a mail flow rule that
checks for sensitive information in emails sent from inside the organization.

1.  Switch to **LON-CL1** and log in as the **Administrator** account with a
    password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2.  Select the **Microsoft Edge** icon either on the desktop or the taskbar.
    Maximize your browser window when it opens.

3.  In your browser navigate to the **Office 365 Home** page by entering the following URL in the address bar: **https://portal.office.com/**

4.  In the **Sign in** dialog box, copy and paste in the **Tenant Email**
    account provided by your lab hosting provider
    (**admin@xxxxxZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com**, where xxxxxZZZZZZ is your unique
    tenant prefix provided by your lab hosting provider) and then select
    **Next**.

5.  In the **Enter password** dialog box, copy and paste in the **Tenant
    Password** provided by your lab hosting provider and then select **Sign
    in**.

6.  On the **Stay signed in?** dialog box, select the **Don’t show this again**
    check box and then select **Yes.**

7.  If a **Get your work done with Office 365** dialog box appears, select the
    **X** to close it.

8.  In the **Office 365 Home** page, select the **Admin** icon in the column of
    Microsoft 365 app icons on the left-side of the screen.

9.  In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation bar,
    select **Show All** to display all the navigation menu options.

10. On the left-hand navigation bar, in the **Admin centers** section, select
    **Exchange**. This opens the new Exchange admin center for Exchange
    Online. Select **Classic Exchange admin center** on the lower left menu.

11. In the **Exchange admin center**, in the left-hand navigation
    pane, select **mail flow.**

12. At the top of the page, the **rules** tab displays by default. Stay in this
    tab.

13. The first mail flow rule that you create will check for emails sent from
    inside the organization that have sensitive words in the email subject line
    or body. Select the **plus sign (+)** icon in the menu bar, and in the
    drop-down menu that appears, select **Modify messages.**

14. In the **new rule** window that appears, enter **Sensitive material** in the
    **Name** field.

15. Note that by default, you can only enter one condition (the **Apply this
    rule if…** field). Since this rule requires multiple conditions, select
    **More options...** that appears at the bottom of the window. This displays
    an **add condition** button that enables you to enter multiple conditions
    and actions.

16. To add the first condition, select the drop-down arrow in the **Apply this
    rule if…** field. In the drop-down menu that appears, hover your mouse over
    **The subject or body…**. In the menu that appears, select **subject or body
    includes any of these words.**

17. This opens a **specify words or phrases** window. In the text field, enter
    **secret** and select the **plus (+) sign**.

18. In the text field, enter **classified** and select the plus sign, then
    repeat this step and enter **sensitive**.

19. The three words should display below the text field. Select **OK**.

20. In the **new rule** window, the three words should display to the right of
    the **The subject or body includes…** condition. Click on **more options** 
    at the bottom then select the **add condition** button to add another condition.

21. Select the drop-down arrow in the second condition field that appears (Note
    how this creates a Boolean **And** condition). Hover your mouse over **The
    sender…** and in the menu that appears, select **is external/internal**.

22. In the **select sender location** window, select the drop-down arrow, select
    **Inside the organization**, and then select **OK**.

23. Select the drop-down arrow in the **Do the following…** field. Hover your
    mouse over **Redirect the message to…** and in the menu that appears, select
    **hosted quarantine.**

24. Select the **add action** button to add another action.

25. Select the drop-down arrow in the second action field that appears. Hover
    your mouse over **Apply a disclaimer to the message…** and in the menu that
    appears, select **append a disclaimer.**

26. To the right of the second action field that displays **Append the
    disclaimer…,** select **Enter text.**

27. In the **specify disclaimer text** window, enter the following message in
    the field: **This message contains sensitive material that can harm the
    company or your team.**

28. Select **OK.**

29. To the right of the second action field that displays **Append the
    disclaimer…,** select **Select one.**

30. In the **specify fallback action** window, **Wrap** displays as the default
    fallback option. This is the option you want to select as the fallback
    option (Wrap means if the disclaimer cannot be inserted into the original
    email, it will attach the message to a new disclaimer email) so select
    **OK**.

31. Scroll down in the **new rule** window and under the **Properties of this
    rule** section, verify the **Audit this rule with severity level:** checkbox
    is selected. If it’s not checked, then select it now.

32. Select the severity level drop-down arrow and select **Medium**.

33. In the **Choose a mode for this rule:** option, select **Enforce**.

34. Select **Save.**

35. This returns you to the **rules** tab in the Exchange admin center. The new
    **Sensitive material** rule should display in the list of rules. This rule
    should be selected, and a **Sensitive material** pane should appear on the
    right that displays the conditions and actions of this rule. Verify the
    conditions and actions are correct; if corrections are needed, select the
    **pencil (Edit)** icon in the menu bar and make the necessary corrections.

36. Leave the Exchange Admin Center open to the **rules** tab on the **mail
    flow** page and proceed to the next task.

## Task 2 - Create first Mail Flow rule for attachments

In this exercise you will create two mail flow rules related to attachments.
Adatum wants to check for emails containing attachments that were either not
scanned or the scanning did not complete. You cannot include both conditions in
one rule, since multiple conditions in a mail flow rule are treated in a Boolean
**AND** fashion (for example, condition 1 is True AND condition 2 is True; this
is similar to what you did in the prior task where you checked for specific
words in the email AND the email was received from inside the organization).

In this case, it does not make logical sense to create just one rule that checks
for attachments that were not scanned AND for attachments in which scanning did
not complete. Therefore, you will need to create two rules; one for messages
with attachments that were not scanned and one for messages with attachments
where scanning of the attachments did not complete. Because these two conditions
will be defined in separate rules, the rules will be applied in a Boolean **OR**
fashion (for example, condition 1 is True OR condition 2 is True).

This task will create the first rule; the next task will create the second rule.

1.  You should still be logged into LON-CL1 as the **Administrator** with a
    password of **Pa55w.rd**; however, if the log-in page appears, then log in
    now.

2.  In your **Edge** browser, the **Exchange Admin Center** should still be open
    from the prior task, and you should still be on the **rules** tab for the
    **mail flow** page. If so, then proceed to the next step; otherwise,
    navigate to the **Exchange admin center**, then select **mail flow** in the
    left-hand navigation pane and select the **rules** tab, just as you did in
    the prior task.

3.  In this task, you will create a mail flow rule that checks for emails that
    contain attachments that cannot be scanned. In the **rules** tab, select the
    **plus (+) sign** icon in the menu bar and in the drop-down menu, select
    **Modify messages.**

4.  In the **new rule** window, enter **Attachments could not be scanned** in
    the **Name** field.

5.  Select drop-down arrow in the **Apply this rule if…** field. In the menu
    that appears, review the available options. Note that in the default list of
    menu options, the only attachment-related option is **Any attachment’s
    content includes**; there is no option related to the status of an
    attachment. Therefore, select inside the field to collapse the menu and then scroll down
    in the **new rule** window and select **More options…**

6.  Scroll up to the top of the window. Select the drop-down arrow in the
    **Apply this rule if…** field. Hover your mouse over **Any attachment…** and
    in the menu that appears, select **content can’t be inspected.**

7.  Select the drop-down arrow in the **Do the following…** field. Hover your
    mouse over **Redirect the message to…** and in the menu that appears, select
    **hosted quarantine.**

8.  Select the **add action** button to add another action.

9.  Select the drop-down arrow in the second action field that appears. Hover
    your mouse over **Apply a disclaimer to the message…** and in the menu that
    appears, select **append a disclaimer.**

10. To the right of the second action field that displays **Append the
    disclaimer…,** select **Enter text.**

11. In the **specify disclaimer text** window, enter the following message in
    the field: **Attachments in this message were not scanned.**

12. Select **OK.**

13. To the right of the second action field that displays **Append the
    disclaimer…,** select **Select one.**

14. In the **specify fallback action** window, **Wrap** is displayed as the
    default fallback option. This is the option you want to select as the
    fallback option, so select **OK**.

15. Scroll down in the **new rule** window and under the **Properties of this
    rule** section, verify the **Audit this rule with severity level:** checkbox
    is selected. If it’s not checked, then select it now.

16. Select the severity level drop-down arrow and select **Medium**.

17. In the **Choose a mode for this rule:** option, select **Enforce**.

18. Select **Save.**

19. This returns you to the **rules** tab in the Exchange admin center. The new
    **Attachments could not be scanned** rule should be displayed in the list of
    rules. This rule should be selected, and an **Attachments could not be
    scanned** pane should appear that displays the conditions and actions of
    this rule. Verify the conditions and actions are correct; if any corrections
    are needed, select the **pencil (Edit)** icon in the menu bar and make the
    necessary corrections.

20. Leave the Exchange Admin Center open to the mail flow page and proceed to
    the next task.

## Task 3 - Create second Mail Flow rule for attachments

In the prior task, you created a mail flow rule for messages with attachments
that were not scanned. In this task, you will create a second mail flow rule for
messages with attachments; however, in this case, it will be for messages with
attachments in which scanning of the attachments did not complete. Because these
conditions will be defined in separate rules, the rules will be applied in a
Boolean OR fashion.

1.  You should still be logged into LON-CL1 as the **Administrator** with a
    password of **Pa55w.rd**; however, if the log-in page appears, then log in
    now.

2.  If the **Exchange admin center** is still open from the prior task, then
    proceed to the next step; otherwise, navigate to the **Exchange admin
    center**, then select **mail flow** in the left-hand navigation pane and
    select the **rules** tab.

3.  You will now create a mail flow rule that checks for emails that contain
    attachments where the scanning of the attachments didn’t finish. In the
    **rules** tab, select the **plus (+) sign** icon in the menu bar and in the
    drop-down menu that appears, select **Modify messages.**

4.  In the **new rule** window, enter **Attachment scanning did not complete**
    in the **Name** field.

5.  Scroll down and select **more options.** The reason you must select **More
    options** at this point in the process is that you want to apply this rule
    if an attachment was not scanned or the scanning didn’t finish. However, as
    you saw in the prior task, those attachment options are not available in the
    initial **Apply this rule if…** condition field. You must select **More
    options** to see the attachment conditions.

6.  Scroll up to the top of the window. Select the drop-down arrow in the
    **Apply this rule if…** field. Hover your mouse over **Any attachment…** and
    in the menu that appears, select **didn’t complete scanning.**

7.  Select the drop-down arrow in the **Do the following…** field. Hover your
    mouse over **Redirect the message to…** and in the menu that appears, select
    **hosted quarantine.**

8.  Select the **add action** button to add another action.

9.  Select the drop-down arrow in the second action field that appears. Hover
    your mouse over **Apply a disclaimer to the message…** and in the menu that
    appears, select **append a disclaimer.**

10. To the right of the second action field that displays **Append the
    disclaimer…,** select **Enter text.**

11. In the **specify disclaimer text** window, enter the following message in
    the field: **Scanning of attachments in this message did not complete.**

12. Select **OK.**

13. To the right of the second action field that displays **Append the
    disclaimer…,** select **Select one.**

14. In the **specify fallback action** window, **Wrap** is displayed as the
    default fallback option. This is the option you want to select as the
    fallback option, so select **OK**.

15. Scroll down in the **new rule** window and under the **Properties of this
    rule** section, verify the **Audit this rule with severity level:** checkbox
    is selected. If it’s not checked, then select it now.

16. Select the severity level drop-down arrow and select **Medium**.

17. In the **Choose a mode for this rule:** option, select **Enforce**.

18. Select **Save.**

19. This returns you to the **rules** tab in the Exchange admin center. The new
    **Attachment scanning did not complete** rule should be displayed in the
    list of rules. This rule should be selected, and an **Attachment scanning
    did not complete** pane should appear that displays the conditions and
    actions of this rule. Verify the conditions and actions are correct; if any
    corrections are needed, select the **pencil (Edit)** icon in the menu bar
    and make the necessary corrections.

20. Leave the Exchange Admin Center open and proceed to the next task.

## Task 4 – Create Mail Flow rule restricting email size

After Holly reviewed the messaging environment at Adatum Corporation, she
realized that she could provide a more efficient and secure environment by
creating some targeted mail flow rules. She has decided to create a set of mail
flow rules that identify and act on messages that are in-transit through her
Exchange Online organization, as opposed to simply waiting until the messages
are delivered to mailboxes before being acted upon by Inbox rules in Outlook and
Outlook on the web.

Holly has discovered that mail flow rules contain a richer set of conditions,
exceptions, and actions, all of which will provide her with the flexibility to
implement many types of messaging policies for Adatum. She is eager to put this
to the test regarding a significant issue currently affecting Adatum’s messaging
environment - users who send extremely large email messages. She has decided to
address this issue by creating a mail flow rule that restricts email size.

1.  You should still be logged into LON-CL1 as the **Administrator** with a
    password of **Pa55w.rd**; however, if the log-in page appears, then log in
    now.

2.  If the **Exchange admin center** is still open from the prior task, then
    proceed to the next step; otherwise, navigate to the **Exchange admin
    center**, then select **mail flow** in the left-hand navigation pane and
    select the **rules** tab.

3.  You will now create a mail flow rule that checks the size of emails and
    restricts those that exceed a specific size. In the **rules** tab, select
    the **plus (+) sign** icon in the menu bar and in the drop-down menu that
    appears, select **Filter messages by size.**

4.  In the **new rule** window, enter **Email size restriction** in the **Name**
    field.

5.  Select the drop-down arrow in the **Apply this rule if…** field. Hover your
    mouse over **The message…** and in the menu that appears, select **size is
    greater than or equal to.**

6.  To the right of this condition field that displays **The message size is
    greater than or equal to…**, select **Enter text**.

7.  In the **specify size (KB)** window, enter **1024** and then select **OK**.

8.  Select the drop-down arrow in the **Do the following…** field. Hover your
    mouse over **Block the message...** and in the menu that appears, select
    **reject the message and include an explanation**.

9.  In the **specify rejection reason** window that appears, enter the following
    text: **Your message exceeds the size limit. Please adjust the message size
    or compress the email content and send it as a zipped file.**

10. Select **OK.**

11. Scroll down to the **Choose a mode for this rule:** option and select
    **Enforce**.

12. Select **Save.**

13. This returns you to the **rules** tab in the Exchange admin center. The new
    **Email size restriction** rule should be displayed in the list of rules.
    This rule should be selected, and an **Email size restriction** pane should
    appear that displays the conditions and actions of this rule. Verify the
    conditions and actions are correct; if any corrections are needed, select
    the **pencil (Edit)** icon in the menu bar and make the necessary
    corrections.

14. Leave the Exchange Admin Center open to the mail flow page and proceed to
    the next lab.


# End of Lab 2
